As a programmer, or even as a frequent computer user, you need keybinds.  Trust me, they are amazing.  In most situations they are just flat out faster.  You should use keybinds to navigate your operating system, web browsers, text editors, and anything else you can imagine where you spend unecessary energy on mouse movements.

Here I thought I'd share some strategies I use to learn keybinds.  Any insight here wasn't just gleaned from my programming days, it's been slowly ingrained in me over time through none other than the magic of videogames. MMORPG's are a great example, as sometimes you'd have 50, 70, even 100+ abilities that you needed to keep track of and be able to use on demand with as little delay as humanly possible.  

With competitive games in particular the motivation for putting up with the hassle of learning keybinds is obvious.  There is a clear goal that they help you reach: be better.  Win more.  Being able to tell people just how bad you think they are in all chat more frequently (p.s. don't do this last one).

With programming I've found it's a little bit more abstract, but the general concept holds true for both.  As a developer things like your OS and your editors are your tools.  They facilitate the ultimate goal of producing value in the form of good code, and like any craftsman you should look to master your tools.

Ok, enough with the life lessons.  To me these are the three most important points about keybinds:

* Force yourself to use them.  Don't cheat.
* Have a master list of keybinds a.k.a cheat sheet.  Build this up over time.
* Have a few that you keep on hand (sometimes I have an index card that I'll keep with my computer) that you plan on deliberately practicing.  Three is usually a good number, but do whatever works for you.

Long term, the latter 2 are the most important.  The first usually takes some time to get over, but once you cross that bridge you'll likely stay there forever. 

If you're just starting out with keybinds, it can be helpful to see a setup from a more experienced developer.  Using vim as an example, if you're feeling ambitious check out [Ben Orenstein's .vimrc](https://github.com/r00k/dotfiles/blob/master/vimrc) and look for the huge block of commands prefixed with `map <Leader> ...`. It's also worth checking out [this talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkdrYWhh-8s) he gave on breaking out of low-intermediate to intermediate level vim.  To no surprise, keybinds are a huge part of that.

I've been learning vim over the past few months, and I feel like I didn't start to unlock its power until I really started to build up my keybind repertoire.  The general idea I want to get after is don't learn 100, 50, or even 20 keybinds at once.  Start with a few, get the muscle memory down, and make sure you add them to the cheatsheet.  Rinse and repeat.

  


